CSCI 3010
Lecture 15
Leif Anders


GUIs, Task 0: vocabulary
------------------------------------

This is a follow-on to what we covered at the end of lecture 17 with GUIs. Answer the following questions.

        What is model/view separation in GUI programming?
            model (domain) objects should not have direct knowledge of view (presentation) objects, at least as view objects.
            model handles the logic (code). view presents the interface that the user interacts with

        What is a component when creating GUIs?
            components include labels, text fields, text areas, buttons, pop-up menus, etc
            elements of information and interaction

        What is a container when creating GUIs?
            A container provides a space where a component can be located

        What is a window when creating GUIs?
            A window is a separate viewing area on a computer display screen in a system that allows multiple viewing areas as part of a graphical user interface ( GUI ).
            application window

        What components are in the GUI that you designed in your low-fidelity prototype during lecture 14? If you weren't in class, what components can you identify on an example application of your choosing?
            labels, textfields, buttons, menus, drop down lists


Plot Project, Task 2: Visualizing our plotting field.
------------------------------

Given a point in standard format, (x, y), what equations will you use to calculate the equivalent coordinates on our gui adjusted layout?

For example, I want an equation that, given the x coordinate 20, will calculate the value (width / 2) + 20. 
Given the y coordinate 10, the y-coordinate equation should calculate the value (height / 2) - 10. 
This will make our point (20, 10) appear as if plotted in the standard layout.

int x_adj = x + width/2        (moving origin towards positive x)
int y_adj = y - height/2       (moving origin towards negative y)


Task 4: Qt GUI basics -- using the framework for the given qt plotting project
----------------------------------

1) What object does our PlotWindow inherit?


2) What objects are created in the main.cpp file? What two methods are called? What do these two methods do? Take a look at the documentation for QWidget
Links to an external site. and QApplication.

Links to an external site.

3) Write down the lines of code that you would use in the PlotWindow object to access at least 3 different ui elements.


4) What are some differences between a QGraphicsView and a QGraphicsScene? In our example, which one contains the other?